---
title: Introductions...
date: "2035-05-12"
description: "Going way back, way back..."
---

It has been many many years and yet it seems like just yesterday that what I am about to tell you took place…  

Life has been described as having two certainties: Death and Taxes. I would like to suggest a shift in perception from this materialistic focus to a more enlightened focus that portrays the human spirit in what some would argue is a humanistic perception. By quantifying life through death and taxes, one would assume that life is all about greed, ego, “success” that is always rudely interrupted. I believe that there is more to life than that. Coincidently, the greatest Man that ever lived once said that one was to love your neighbor as one loves themselves. An interesting thought for masochists but nevertheless possibly one of the greatest frustrations of all times has been that what this Man said would loose its relevance over time because of the “progression” of mankind. However the nail was hit squarely on the head with that, the greatest thing is to love. No matter how the human species “evolves” and adapts to their environment, love will always be the greatest thing. 

With that being said, let me begin to divulge the secret that has been sheltered close to my heart for quite some time. However, now I feel I cannot keep it hidden from the world anymore. As you read my story my secret will begin to materialize. I can feel myself beginning to digress, a trait I have strived to lay to rest my whole life... So I guess I should start at the beginning. 

A book about my family I think should start with my father. I did not get to know him until late in my life. He was not a bad father nor did he leave my mother and I. Rather he died when I was very young. My mother said he died protecting us. The following chapters were compiled from letters I recovered from my parents belongings, journal entries, newspaper articles, stories that my mother told me when I was younger, and my fathers own writings which until recently I was able to fully understand. All of these things have prompted me to complete this book. To the best of my knowledge I have attempted to portray, as accurately as I can, events that were put into motion well before my birth.

As I commit my manifesto, if you will, to paper I hope that it will atone for my sins but before I get ahead of myself again I have started something and therefore I must finish it. It may be said that I have carefully planned my “exit strategy” over the last thirty or so years of my life.

My proposed shift in perceptions is this: The two greatest things in this life are Love and Hope and the one certainty in this life is that you will loose one or both. For some they loose one then find the other but then there are those who loose both at once or at least in quick succession. I have heard it said that love will follow you anywhere and in your darkest hour it is just enough to know that it is there but when you feel hope turn its face on you when you need it the most, all you are left with is love. And of course when all you have is love, your greatest fear is that you will loose the one thing you are clinging too in your darkest hour. Now you may ask: how could this shift be perceived as a humanistic viewpoint? Well it is simple I have not included evil as a certainty. The greatest battles and struggles in the entirety of human history have been the battles between good and evil. Is man basically good or do all human beings have an inherent tendency to evil? However, some would say that evil is inevitable and that being aware of it has only only made us, just that, aware of our evil tendencies. And of course being made aware of our vileness would make us want to be saved from it. That being said if you do not believe that we are all inherently evil then that certainly simplifies things, at least on the surface. I for one though, believe that we are all inherently evil and since these pages are my venue and since you are choosing to read them it would suggest one of two things (but not both). That you either agree with me or that you are searching… 

Therefore I have come to believe that love and hope are the two most important human conditions. The loss of these are not only inevitable but are the result of all the evil in the world. But you may say that sin is inevitable, that even I said that to be true, so would not it be a certainty of life. Ahh, but it is no certainty because evil is how we, as individuals, perceive it and we always have a choice. What may be wrong for you is not wrong for me and vice versa. Unless of course there is one great being that decides for all of us what is right and wrong, but therein lies a problem for that would suggest a lack of choice. That would mean that we cannot help but be drawn to evil, we are predestined for it. I do not believe that we are predestined for anything therefore sin is not a certainty because it is all in the eye of the beholder and we always have a choice. Let each man atone for what wrongs he believes (or maybe he feels convicted of) that he has done.

These thoughts, seeds if you will, were planted a long time ago in my youth. Little did I know that they would have such a profound impact on not only my life but that of entire human race. For from these thoughts was born the foundations of the revolution. But before we get into that piece of history I must start at the beginning, I must start with the causes and effects. How and why are nearly synonymous - yet my aim is to understand why the result of many effects caused the how to be justified and the reason I feel I must atone for my Evil. 

My mother gave to me my Dad's (her only husband) journals, on the last night I ever saw her. She wanted me to keep them safe. She said that there was something about them that I needed to grasp. He died to soon, he was not finished. She thought that his purpose could be finished through his writing. She did not know how or even why she felt this way but she knew without a doubt that it was true. It was also on that night that she told me how he died. I always assumed it was a car accident or maybe in the shellings that were happening a lot when I was a baby. She never wanted to talk about it, but for years I would hear her screaming in her sleep and as I got older I was just to scared to ask how it happened. She spoke of a terrible monster, an evil whisper, a creature if you will that came and crushed the life from him. I did not believe her at first, but as I have seen things unfold I am more and more inclined to believe her. But just like my father I am getting ahead of myself. Instead of the middle let me start at the beginning… 