---
title: The Beginnings of a dreamer
date: "1987-01-01"
description: Andor discovers something magical...
---

  It was a typical spring Thursday morning in every regard but one, the teacher was out sick today. The boy lived in a small mountain town of around three hundred year round residents. There was a post office, a general store, a small school and a church. The small town did not even have a stop light. As the boy walked back to his home the realization that without his school responsibilities holding him back today he was free for the entire day! He paused long enough at home to drop his school pack, grab an apple, his knife, and a small canteen. As he ran out the back door he whistled for his dog. The river that flowed by his home was getting bigger as the snow was beginning to melt off. He bounded from rock to rock and delicately crossed a log lying between two boulders above the river. On the other side he sprinted deep into the forest, just the boy, his dog, and the whole world to explore. The pine forest swallowed them up in its darkness. It was cooler inside the forest. The birds sang, a mountain king snake slithered through a clump of Indian paintbrushes, and a squirrel chastised the boys dog from the safety of bow high above the ground. The boy picked up a stone and placed it in his sling which he had stuffed in his back pocket. Twirling it above his head he flung the stone hitting a sapling about two inches around almost fifty feet away with enough force to snap it in half. He smiled and continued on his way. As the boy climbed higher into the mountains he stopped at a spring and drank till he felt his belly would burst. It was the last pure source of water the boy knew of and so he filled his canteen and slung it over his shoulder. As he climbed higher he paused to watch a herd of mountain goats graze, but then his dog caught scent of the goats and the boy could hear the fading sound of goats crashing into the forest a barking dog nipping at their heels. 

  Andor first noticed the mountain looming over his house earlier that winter. He thought it a bit odd he had never noticed it before but after staring at the mountain for several weeks and wondering what it was like on top the boy had a brilliant idea; why not climb to the top? He could not stop wondering what it was like on top and actually experience it. It was so far from home and it looked so tall and formidable. He asked his mother if he could hike up there but she only replied 
  
  “Maybe next year, when you are a bit older my dear” 
  
  He wasn’t happy with that answer, so he started making plans of his own. It was the beginning of spring and after a few weeks of waiting for the snow to melt off sufficiently. The gift wrapped opportunity to embark on the clandestine adventure came when school was unexpectedly closed, which happened to coincide with his mother working a shift at the diner in the valley and his Dad being away on a business trip. With no one home Andor was free for at least twelve hours! The fact that it was the furthest he had been from home and the fact that no one knew where he was going gave the boy a sense of adventure and intrigue unlike anything he had ever experienced before and not a single thought entered his mind that it was a bad idea to go deep into the mountains alone with no one aware of his intentions. 
  
  As Andor climbed higher the trees changed, they became shorter and more gnarled. There were large formations of schist rock, it was easy to distinguish because the grey rock had large quartz and mica linear deposits that made the stone glitter in the sunlight. He not only considered himself an explorer but a geologist, botanist, entomologists, biologist, hunter - albeit not a very good one and a survivalist. He was a naturalist in every sense of the word. Something he took great pride in. While his friends were watching TV or playing video games he was outside exploring a ravine, a meadow, or a tree-top and now this mountain!

  After a four hour cross country hike Andor reached the lake at the base of the mountain. The water, the deep color of topaz, shimmered under the hot afternoon sun and the banks were lined with quaking aspens, large cedars and sugar pines. On the south bank there was an island. Andor jumped into the lake and easily swam the gap between the shoreline and the island, it was only about one hundred and fifty feet. On the other side he began to explore the island. Construction plans for forts and day dreams of summer days spent lazily floating across the lake danced through his mind. The island was covered in trees and brush. However, to his delight, in the center of the island, there was a large rock outcropping that hung over heavily on one side creating a cave of sorts about ten feet wide at the mouth and fifteen feet deep and ten feet tall. After a brief exploration of the island the boy again turned his attention to the mountain that sprang a thousand feet out of the lake. He would need to hurry if he was going to reach the top today. After quickly swimming the gap Andor began running along the lakes shoreline and soon he was at the foot of the mountain. There he began the trek up the steep talus fields that blanketed the lower portion of the mountain. As he climbed higher the air grew thinner, he was accustomed to the mountains but he seldom ventured this high. 
  
  As the boy climbed higher the talus fields were replaced with sheer granite cliffs. He continued upward squeezing through vertical crevasses and negotiating seemingly blank faces of vertical granite hundreds of feet above the talus. He could hear the wind blowing up the side of the mountain and feel the cold, lichen covered granite scraping his fingertips. It was truly awe-inspiring and a bit scary too. It was during this moment that Andor realized what he wanted to do with the rest of his life: explore. After a seemingly endless climb he reached the mountain top late in the afternoon. The sun would be setting soon but he was not worried there was a full moon already high in the sky. He could find his way home by moonlight. Andor sat down on the mountain top and drank in the vista, a deer and her foal grazed in a meadow nestled in a còl half-way up the side of the mountain he had just climbed. The sinking sun filled the mountains with a pink glow. It was peaceful up here the boy could see his village in the valley below. Smoke billowing from chimneys and the occasional car driving up the road most likely the driver returning from a day of working in the valley about an hours drive away. He was free to dream up here with out interruption or interference. This was the beginning of his obsession with climbing in the mountains and as he grew older he would return here time after time to gather his thoughts and to dream. 
  
  Andor had no idea then the impact of what he had discovered that day would one day have on his life. 
